
---
tags: release, mapproxy
date: 2010/10/18 00:00:00
format: markdown
title: New MapProxy 0.9.0 release
---

We are finally ready to announce the release of MapProxy 0.9.0. It
contains lots of major and minor improvements.


The latest release is available at: <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/MapProxy>

To upgrade within your virtualenv:

    $ pip install MapProxy

Updated documentation is available at: <http://mapproxy.org/docs/0.9.0/>


Some noteworthy improvements are:

Demo Service
------------

MapProxy now comes with a demo service that lists all configured WMS and
TMS layers. You can test each layer with a simple OpenLayers client at
/demo.

<http://mapproxy.org/docs/0.9.0/services.html#mapproxy-demo-service>


Configuration
-------------

A biggest and most apparent change is the configuration format. MapProxy
still uses YAML as a configuration format, but the structure changed a
bit.

Some benefits of the new configuration: Most global options, like image
resampling and meta_size, are now configurable for each cache; you can
now reuse parts of the configuration, like grid or source definitions;
and there is now a single configuration file instead of two
(service.yaml and proxy.yaml).

There is a small migration guide that should help to update your
configuration. <http://mapproxy.org/docs/0.9.0/migrate.html>

Oh, and in case you didn't know, YAML is compatible with JSON. So you
can use JSON for the configuration if you like.


Less dependencies
-----------------

We removed two dependencies that required a C compiler. The only
dependency that still requires compilation is the Python Image Library
(PIL). If you use PIL from your system distribution (python-imaging on
Debian/Ubuntu) you will no longer need a compiler during installation.

We switched the templates away from Jinja2 to Tempita, a minimal
Python-only template engine. It is a bit slower, but it is only used for
capability documents, so the WMS and TMS performance is not affected.

The other dependency which required compilation was pyproj. We we added a
wrapper to MapProxy that directly uses libproj, the Proj4 C-library.
libproj is available on most systems and should already be installed
when you use software like MapServer or PostGIS. There is a fallback to
pyproj, i.e. you can still use the binary distribution of pyproj on
Windows.
