
---
tags: release, mapproxy
date: 2013/09/05 11:00:00
format: markdown
title: New MapProxy 1.6.0 release
---

We are pleased to announce the release of MapProxy 1.6.0. It
contains a lot of major and minor improvements.

The latest release is available at: <http://pypi.python.org/pypi/MapProxy>

To upgrade within your virtualenv:

    $ pip install --upgrade --no-deps MapProxy

Updated documentation is available at: <http://mapproxy.org/docs/1.6.0/>

### New features

Some noteworthy improvements since 1.5.0 are:


#### New decorate image API

There is a new API to decorate or manipulate the images returned by MapProxy.
It allows you to apply image filters or to add watermarks.
The API is similar to the security API.

See: <http://mapproxy.org/docs/1.6.0/decorate_img.html>

#### New SQLite and Riak cache backends

There are two new cache backends. Riak is a distributed key-value store
that can be used to create high-available caches.
The new SQLite cache is similar to MBTiles, but it adds timestamps for
proper tile expiration and it uses one database file for each level.
This makes it easy to remove complete levels without needing to VACUUM
the database.

See: <http://mapproxy.org/docs/1.6.0/caches.html>

#### Improved image processing

MapProxy now supports Pillow the successor of PIL. Pillow contains
improvements in PNG encoding performance and support for alpha image
composition, which improves overlays of multiple transparent layers.


#### Usability improvements

There are multiple smaller changes that improve the overall usability
of MapProxy. The deployment documentation was updated and
`mapproxy-util create -t base-config` now creates a minimal MapProxy
configuration and a full configuration with nearly all available options.
Most configuration erros should now give a friendly error message instead
of a stack trace.

#### Other fixes and changes

There are many more change, improvements and changes.
For a complete list of see: <http://github.com/mapproxy/mapproxy/blob/1.6.0/CHANGES.txt>
